Add RFC for cloudfoundry org membership (#194)
cloudfoundry/community: toc/rfc/accepted/rfc-draft-github-members.md

longer appropriately positioned to grant and revoke access to users of the Cloudfoundry GitHub org

## Problem

Previously re was a central team in VMWare that undertook adding of individuals on successful completion of the dojo, 
as this was the process for gaining committer rights on the repositories. However, as this model is no longer in use it
presents a problem in terms of who should fulfil this role.

## Proposal

As defined in the [roles](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/community/blob/main/toc/ROLES.md), contributor and above roles
should be members of the Cloudfoundry org and possibly other orgs if appropriate. As the responsibility to become a
contributor is to make multiple contributions and be an active member of the community, it should for the Approvers and 
Working Group Leads to make the judgement call on if an individual has met the criteria to become a contributor.

The addition of raising and merging PRs to add members to the cloudfoundry and other foundation org(s) is the 
responsibility or the working group approvers and leads.

Removing members of the cloudfoundry and other foundation org(s) may have unintended consequences. Raising PRs to remove

> members of the cloudfoundry and other foundation org(s) is the responsibility or the working group approvers and leads.

Reviewer: `or` should be `of`

Author: Fixed

These PRs should be tagged `toc` and mention `@cloudfoundry/toc`. The TOC will then take responsibility for the merging

> or closing of the raised PRs.

Reviewer: So removing members is the responsibility of the working group approvers and leads, if that is the case, why would the `@cloudfoundry/toc` need to be tagged?

Author: I was thinking Working group to raise the PR, but TOC to merge or close the PR.

Author: I've made some wording tweaks

Reviewer: read much better, however, there is still an `or` which should be an `of` (responsibility of the...)

Reviewer: actually that one is fixed its `consequences or removing members`

Author: Got that one and added a missing word

# Meta
[meta]: #meta
- Name: Who is able to add and remove members of the Cloudfoundry GitHub org
- Start Date: 2022-01-26
- Author(s): @LeePorte
- Status: Draft
- RFC Pull Request: https://github.com/cloudfoundry/community/pull/194

## Summary

As the Cloudfoundry moves from the dojo model to an open committer model the existing central team in VMWare are no 

> longer appropriately positioned to grant and revoke access to users of the Cloudfoundry GitHub org

Reviewer 2: I think it would be better for this section to summarize the proposed solution instead of the problem that is motivating the RFC.

Author: Good suggestion, I've modified the wording to reflect this.

## Problem

Previously re was a central team in VMWare that undertook adding of individuals on successful completion of the dojo, 
as this was the process for gaining committer rights on the repositories. However, as this model is no longer in use it
presents a problem in terms of who should fulfil this role.

## Proposal

As defined in the [roles](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/community/blob/main/toc/ROLES.md), contributor and above roles
should be members of the Cloudfoundry org and possibly other orgs if appropriate. As the responsibility to become a
contributor is to make multiple contributions and be an active member of the community, it should for the Approvers and 
Working Group Leads to make the judgement call on if an individual has met the criteria to become a contributor.

The addition of raising and merging PRs to add members to the cloudfoundry and other foundation org(s) is the 

> responsibility of the working group approvers and leads.

Author: I was thinking that the PR could be raised by an approver on a fork of this repo, though to merge it would require a lead with committer rights on this repo

> responsibility of the working group approvers and leads.

Author: I've tweaked the wording, let me know if you think it's on the mark or not

# Meta
[meta]: #meta
- Name: Who is able to add and remove members of the Cloudfoundry GitHub org
- Start Date: 2022-01-26
- Author(s): @LeePorte
- Status: Draft
- RFC Pull Request: https://github.com/cloudfoundry/community/pull/194

## Summary

As we use a working group based approach it seems sensible to leverage the working groups to control access to their
repositories within the cloudfoundry and other associated GitHub orgs. As the working groups are closer to what is 
happening in their projects they are better positioned to react faster to adding and removing individuals.

## Problem

> Previously re was a central team in VMWare that undertook adding of individuals on successful completion of the dojo, 
> as this was the process for gaining committer rights on the repositories. However, as this model is no longer in use it
> presents a problem in terms of who should fulfil this role.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Under the previous dojo-based participation model, a central team of VMware admins was primarily responsible for managing the members of the `cloudfoundry` GitHub org. In the current system of CF community roles and responsibilities, however, that delegation to the administrative team of a single member company no longer makes sense.
```

## Proposal

> As defined in the [roles](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/community/blob/main/toc/ROLES.md), contributor and above roles
> should be members of the Cloudfoundry org and possibly other orgs if appropriate. As the responsibility to become a
> contributor is to make multiple contributions and be an active member of the community, it should for the Approvers and 
> Working Group Leads to make the judgement call on if an individual has met the criteria to become a contributor.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As defined in the [roles](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/community/blob/main/toc/ROLES.md), each Contributor
should be a member of the `cloudfoundry` GitHub org.
The leads and approvers within a Working Group are best positioned to decide whether an individual has met the minimum contribution criteria to become an official contributor.
```

> Raising PRs to add members to the cloudfoundry and other foundation org(s) is the responsibility of the working group 
> approvers and leads. Working Group leads are required to merge in the PRs to the community repo due to access constraints.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A Working Group approver or lead should raise a PR on the [community](github.com/cloudfoundry/community) repository to propose adding a new member to the `cloudfoundry` GitHub org.
This PR should add the member directly to the YAML file describing the organization membership, as automation will synchronize the GitHub org membership with the contents of this file periodically. 
Only Working Group leads and the TOC will actually have permission to merge these PRs under the planned access control on the community repository.
```

> Removing members of the cloudfoundry and other foundation org(s) may have unintended consequences. As a result the 
> process is slightly different, raising PRs to remove members of the cloudfoundry and other foundation org(s) is the 
> responsibility of the working group approvers and leads as they are closest to the members. However as there are 
> potential unintended consequences of removing members, the working group will not be responsible for the merging or 
> closing of removal PRs. Removal PRs should be tagged `toc` and mention `@cloudfoundry/toc`. The TOC will then take 
> responsibility for the merging or closing of the raised PRs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As removing a member from the `cloudfoundry` GitHub org may have unintended consequences across the organization, the TOC is the body required to approve those removals.
Proposals to remove a member should also be submitted via PR, and the submitter should tag the PR with `toc` and should mention `@cloudfoundry/toc` to make the TOC aware of the request.
The TOC will then consult any working groups that may be affected by the removal of this member and use its usual decision process to approve or reject the removal. 
```
